---
title: "2017"
collection: letters
excerpt: ""
permalink: letter-2017
date: 2017-03-12
image: "/images/writing.jpg"
---

Friends, 

Thank you all for your birthday wishes.

As yet another year passes by I would like to share my experiences and would love to hear from you too!

I quit my job at Schlumberger as a Wireline Field Engineer after 18 months of active service. The time I spent with Schlumberger was marked with very high responsibilities, tough working hours, and extravagant vacations. Even though I was a field engineer, the most important skill required for the job was that of people management. I found that I lacked that quality and the only way to learn it was by observing on the job. Surprisingly, during the last few months after I decided to quit, my relationship with colleagues became stronger. I continue to cherish  those relationships even today.

I left my job to pursue Masters' at Stanford University. Here, I find boundless synergy across all environments, be it in the classrooms, the clubs, or the sports teams. The atmosphere centered around creating value and impact through work fascinates me.  I find my coursework along with independent research to be extremely interesting and stimulating. However, I still don't know if I want to pursue a Ph.D. The biggest thing I have learnt so far at Stanford and the US is to respect people by listening to them without interrupting. I found that it is extremely beneficial in communicating effectively with people. 

As a wish for my birthday, I would like to ask each one of us to be more aware of our impact on our environment. I was shaken to see some of the irreparable damage we have done to our planet in the documentary <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09o1V7Gk9M8" target="_blank">Before the Flood</a>. Moreover, the movie also talks about how  <a href="https://wwf.panda.org/wwf_offices/armenia/help_us/eco_help_living/" target="_blank">small changes</a> in our lifestyles can have a significant contribution towards saving our planet. As I turn a year older my urge to act grows bigger. I am confident that you will support me in this endeavour. 

Thank you for staying in touch, 

I value it immensely.

Krishna Rao
